For more than 80 years, the aviation industry
has asked for Sherwin-Williams Aerospace products.
Specifiers and painters in the commercial
military general and business aircraft segments
recognized Sherwin-Williams as a global leader
in providing certified products and for developing
new innovative products.
Sherwin-Williams is also known for product
and technical support provided by a knowledgeable
and responsive team.
Sherwin-Williams products provide an extremely
high quality finish.
They are also designed for easy application.
To help you achieve a beautiful and durable
finish.
This video demonstrates the proper method
for applying a jet glow express paint system.
Once you've done a thorough stripping of the
aircraft surface and applied a pre-treatment
to the stripped surface you're ready to apply
a primer.
First select one of Sherwin-Williams corrosion
resistant primers and prepare it properly
by shaking it thoroughly and then mixing the
base and components and specific ratios.
Refer to the product datasheet for the proper
mixing regime.
Next check viscosity of the primer mix to
ensure correct application drying and performance
properties.
Allow an induction period of 15 to 30 minutes
and check the temperature of the primer airframe
and paint hanger to ensure each is at room
temperature.
After filtering the paint materials check
your spray gun settings and begin applying
the primer in one light continuous closed
film coat.
When finished allow at least two hours for
drying at room temperature.
Next take dry film thickness readings they
should be approximately 1 mill DFT for projects
requiring optimum finishes, such as on business
jets, ascending surfaces should be applied
epoxy or urethane options are available.
For the sanding surfacer will require two
to twelve hours of dry time depending on which
product is used and its thick.
After Drying the surface her coat should be
approximately four to six mills thick.
Before sanding apply a guide coat to help
identify high and low irregular surfaces and
areas needing sanded.
The surface should be thoroughly abraded with
240 or 320 grit sandpaper or red abrasive
pads.
Ideally the surfacer should be sanded down
to a minimum of around two mills.
At this point, perform filling work along
scenes in rivets using Sherwin-Williams fill
Bond epoxy putty.
When all filling and sanding is complete rinse
the plane's entire surface and allow it to
dry.
Finally, blow down the plane with clean compressed
air and recheck the masking once again.
Now it is time to apply the jet glow express
TopCoat.
But first prepare the plane surface by blowing
it off and then wiping it down with Sherwin-Williams
prepaid wiping solvent.
Now thoroughly Shake Your topcoat.
Then mix the proper amounts of topcoat and
the components.
Tip for this process: Always add hardware
and activator into the base component and
stir.
Then pour the activator of choice slowly into
the mix.
Adjust the mix to the correct viscosity with
solvent and allow a full 30 minutes for induction.
Remember to again check the temperature of
the mixed topcoat airframe and hangar.
After the induction period.
Filter the mixed topcoat into the spray pods.
Adjust your spray guns to the proper setting.
Then begin applying.
Using smooth sweeping horizontal passes.
With each slightly overlapping the last.
Typically two or three medium wet coats of
topcoat are applied to ensure it has good
opacity, flow, and leveling.
Allow a 30 to 45 minute flash period between
coats.
After a layer of topcoat has been applied.
Allow several hours of dry time.
The final topcoat thickness should be two
to three mills dry.
After drying the Liberi striping process is
ready to begin.
By following these guidelines it will help
you achieve outstanding results with Sherwin-Williams
topcoats.
For more specific details on the products
mentioned in this video.
Visit the Sherwin-Williams Website at swaerospace.com.
Or, ask Sherwin-Williams by contacting your
Sherwin-Williams service representative.